Vulnerability bulletin for log4j via JMeter (#998)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/news/vulnerability_bulletins/keptn-sec-2020-003/index.md

---
title: Keptn-Vulnerability-2020-003

> description: RBAC cluster-admin role given to Keptn services by default

Reviewer: Copy-pasta, as well as file name with `2020` in it

Author: thx, renamed it accordingtly.

weight: 98
---

Version 1.0

## Revision Information 

| Revision |    Updated   |     Reason     |
|----------|:------------:|:--------------:|
| 1.0      | December 22, 2021 | Initial Reason |

## Affected

Keptn jmeter-service in version 0.11.3 and older.

## Description

> Keptn jmeter-service in version 0.11.3 and older includes JMeter with a version below v5.4.2 that is vulnerable to Log4j. With JMeter v5.4.2 the bug is fixed. [see](https://jmeter.apache.org/changes.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn jmeter-service in version 0.11.3 and older includes JMeter with a version below v5.4.2 that is vulnerable to Remote Code Execution due to the embedded Log4j version.
We believe that this issue can be exploited in some conditions.
With JMeter v5.4.2 the bug is fixed ([changelog](https://jmeter.apache.org/changes.html)).
```

> ## Severity

Reviewer: For me 10.0 severity is unappropriate, at least in the last Keptn versions. The issue has lower severity there IMO. It would be nice to estimate the possible impact on different Keptn versions and to document it for users. See the investigation thread.

Reviewer 2: Agreed. I would rank it down as the service is not accessible from an external source and the only way to interact with the service is via the Keptn API.

Author: The 10.0 is coming [from](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-44228) and I agree that this is not applicable for our situation since the jmeter-service is not exposed and the only way to interact with it is through the Keptn API. 

Unfortunately, the vulnerable JMeter version (<5.4.2) has no CVE severity classification. 

I have never done a severity estimate. What would be an appropriate number then?

Author: The 10.0 is coming [from](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-44228) and I agree that this is not applicable for our situation since the jmeter-service is not exposed and the only way to interact with it is through the Keptn API. 

Unfortunately, the vulnerable JMeter version (<5.4.2) has no CVE severity classification. 

I have never done a severity estimate. What would be an appropriate number then?

Reviewer: This is a good calculator for CVE: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator
I assume the result will be different for 0.10.x and 0.11.x

Author: Based on the tooling Oleg suggested, we derived an **Overall CVSS Score: 4.0** with **CVSS v3.1 Vector**:
`AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L/E:U/RL:O/RC:R/CR:L/IR:L/AR:L/MAV:N/MAC:L/MPR:L/MUI:N/MS:U/MC:L/MI:L/MA:L`

*of Log4j:*

  * **CVE-2021-44228** [details](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-44228)

  * **CVE-2021-45046** [details](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-45046)

## Recommendations

The release of **jmeter-service** in version **0.11.4** contains the new JMeter version v5.4.2. 

We recommend upgrading your Keptn control plane to 0.11.x as soon as possible allowing you to upgrade the **jmeter-service** to version **0.11.4**.

Please follow this [upgrade path](https://keptn.sh/docs/0.11.x/operate/upgrade/#upgrade-from-keptn-0-11-x-to-keptn-0-11-4).

## Workaround

> Stop using jmeter-service on your execution plane. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stop using and disable jmeter-service on your execution plane. 
```

Reviewer 2: This feels like a weird proposal for delivery pipelines. 

Ensure the service is not accessible from outside the execution plane?

Author: Thx, considered the feedback.
